=head1 NAME

AM - apply amplitude or ring modulation to an input source 

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<AM>(I<outskip>, I<inskip>, I<indur>, I<ampmult>, I<modfreq>,
[, I<inchan> [, I<stereoloc>] ])

Function table 1 gives amplitude curve.

Function table 2 gives modulator waveform (e.g., L<gen9|gen9> or
L<gen10|gen10>).

Function table 3 gives modulator frequency curve (in time,Hz pairs).
(Optional; set I<modfreq> to 0 to use table.)

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<AM> processes an input source using amplitude or ring modulation.  An
oscillator modulates the amplitude of the source.  You control the waveform of
the oscillator (table 2) and the frequency, using either a static frequency
(I<modfreq>) or a frequency curve (table 3).

You get either amplitude modulation or ring modulation, depending on whether
the modulator waveform is unipolar (no negative values) or bipolar (positive
and negative values, like a typical waveform).  A unipolar modulator does
amplitude modulation; a bipolar modulator does ring modulation.

To make a unipolar sine wave, you can add a DC component 90 degrees out of
phase.  For example, the following makegen, using L<gen9|gen9>, creates a sine
wave that oscillates between 0 and 1:

   makegen(2, 9, 1000, 0, .5, 90, 1, .5, 0)

B<AM> uses the curve provided in function table 1 to scale the amplitudes
of the input source.  Use L<setline|setline>, L<setexp|setexp>, or
L<makegen|makegen> to create function table 1.  If this table has not
been created, no amplitude scaling (other than that given by I<ampmult>)
will occur.

The output of B<AM> can be either mono or stereo.

=head1 PFIELDS

=over 8

=item B<p0> (I<outskip>) output start time

=item B<p1> (I<inskip>) input start time

=item B<p2> (I<indur>) input duration

=item B<p3> (I<ampmult>) amplitude multiplier

=item B<p4> (I<modfreq>) modulation oscillator frequency in Hz (or 0 to use table 3)

=item B<p5> (I<inchan>) input channel [optional, default is 0]

=item B<p6> (I<stereoloc>) percent (from 0 to 1) of input signal to place in left output channel [optional, default is 0.5 if output is stereo]

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

   rtinput("mysound.aif")
   setline(0,0, 1,1, 2,0)
   makegen(2, 10, 1000, 1)

   AM(outskip=0, inskip=0, dur=DUR(), amp=1, modfreq=400)

This score fragment processes the entire "mysound.aif" (left channel only)
using ring modulation, with a sine wave modulator with a frequency of 400 Hz.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<setline|setline>, L<setexp|setexp>, L<makegen|makegen>, L<AMINST|AMINST>

=head1 AUTHORS

Brad Garton (maybe?)

Additions by John Gibson E<lt>johgibso at indiana eduE<gt>

