=head1 NAME

copygen - copy a function table, with optional size and interpolation change

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<copygen>(I<new_table>, I<old_table> [, I<new_size>
[, I<interpolation_type> ]])

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Call B<addgens> from a script to make a new function table by adding
corresponding points from two existing tables.  These two tables do
not have to be the same size.  The new table will be as large as the
larger of the two existing tables.

=head1 ARGUMENTS

=over 8

=item I<new_table>

The numeric ID for the new function table.  (This can be the same
as I<old_table>, if you want to overwrite the old one.)

=item I<old_table>

The numeric ID for the existing function table.

=item I<new_size>

If this argument is given and is non-zero, then the new function
table will have this number of elements.  If this argument is not
given, then the new table will have the same number of elements
as the old one.

=item I<interpolation_type>

This optional argument specifies the type of interpolation to use when
copying the table to a new one with a larger size.  The types are:

=over 8

=for html <p>

=item 0

no interpolation

=item 1

linear interpolation

=back

If this argument is not given, then linear interpolation will be used.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

   /* Make a low-resolution sine wave (only 30 table elements). */
   makegen(1, 10, 30, 1)

   /* Copy sine wave to a larger table with no interpolation. */
   copygen(2, 1, 10000, 0)

Table number 2 will contain a sine wave with stair-steps.  The reason
you might want this is that most instruments using function tables will
perform linear interpolation between adjacent table values, thus smoothing
your low-resolution sine wave.  If you really want a jagged sine wave,
then you have to make a very large table that preserves the jagged shape.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<makegen|makegen>, L<addgens|addgens>, L<multgens|multgens>,
L<offsetgen|offsetgen>, L<scalegen|scalegen>, L<invertgen|invertgen>,
L<reversegen|reversegen>, L<shiftgen|shiftgen>, L<quantizegen|quantizegen>

=head1 AUTHOR

John Gibson E<lt>johgibso at indiana eduE<gt>

