=head1 NAME

ELL - elliptical filter instrument


=head1 SYNOPSIS

First, call B<ellset> to set filter parameters.

For highpass or lowpass filters:

B<ellset>(I<pbcutoff>, I<sbcutoff>, 0, I<ripple>, I<atten>)

For a bandpass filter:

B<ellset>(I<lopbcutoff>, I<hipbcutoff>, I<sbcutoff>, I<ripple>, I<atten>)


Then, call B<ELL> to filter the input sound:

B<ELL>(I<outskip>, I<inskip>, I<indur>, I<ampmult>, I<ringdowndur>
[, I<inchan>, I<stereoloc> ])

Function table 1 gives amplitude curve.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<ELL> implements cascaded IIR filters and a built-in elliptical filter
design program.  It can create filters with very steep slopes.

B<ELL> uses the curve provided in function table 1 to scale the amplitudes
of the input source.  Use L<setline|setline>, L<setexp|setexp>, or
L<makegen|makegen> to create function table 1.  If this table has not
been created, no amplitude scaling (other than that given by I<ampmult>)
will occur.

The output of B<ELL> can be either mono or stereo.

=head1 PFIELDS

For ELL...

=over 8

=item B<p0> (I<outskip>) output start time

=item B<p1> (I<inskip>) input start time

=item B<p2> (I<indur>) input duration

=item B<p3> (I<ampmult>) amplitude multiplier

=item B<p4> (I<ringdowndur>) ring-down duration - how long to run the filter after it has consumed all the input 

=item B<p5> (I<inchan>) input channel [optional, default is 0]

=item B<p6> (I<stereoloc>) percent (from 0 to 1) of input signal to place in left output channel [optional, default is 0.5 if output is stereo]

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<setline|setline>, L<setexp|setexp>, L<makegen|makegen>

=head1 AUTHOR

Adapted by John Gibson E<lt>johgibso at indiana eduE<gt> from the
original Cmix instrument.  Thanks to Alistair Riddell and Ross Bencina
for eliminating the f2c dependency.

