=head1 NAME

gen10 - make a function with a waveform, composed of harmonic partials

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<makegen>(I<table_number>, 10, I<table_size>, I<harmonic1_amp>
[, I<harmonic2_amp>, ... I<harmonicN_amp> ])

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Call L<makegen|makegen> from a script with a I<function_type> of 10 to
make a function table with a waveform.  You define the waveform in terms
of any number of harmonic partials, with specific amplitudes for each.

=head1 ARGUMENTS

=over 8

=item I<table_number>

The numeric ID for the function table.

Normally the table will be rescaled to fit between -1 and 1.
Put a negative sign before the number to prevent this.

=item I<table_size>

The size of the function table: how many values it stores.  The larger
the size, the less quantization noise you'll get when using this with
a wavetable oscillator (as in L<WAVETABLE|WAVETABLE>).

=item I<harmonicN_amp>

The amplitude of harmonic partial number N.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

   makegen(2, 10, 1000, 1)

makes one cycle of a sine wave, at full amplitude.

   makegen(2, 10, 1000, 1, 1/2, 1/3, 1/4, 1/5, 1/6, 1/7, 1/8, 1/9, 1/10)

makes one cycle of a sawtooth wave, at full amplitude.  (The amplitude
of each partial is the inverse of its partial number.)

   makegen(2, 10, 1000, 0, 1)

makes two cycles of a sine wave, at full amplitude.  This works because
the second partial has twice the frequency of the first partial, and the
first partial has zero amplitude.

   makegen(2, 10, 1000,  1, 0, 1/3, 0, 1/5, 0, 1/7, 0, 1/9, 0, 1/11, 0,
            1/13, 0, 1/15, 0, 1/17, 0, 1/19, 0, 1/21, 0, 1/23, 0, 1/25)

makes one cycle of a square wave.  (Only odd-numbered partials are present,
and the amplitude of each is the inverse of its partial number.)

=head1 NOTES

L<Gen 9|gen9> lets you specify a waveform with inharmonic, as well as 
harmonic, partials, and lets you control the starting phase of each.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<makegen|makegen>, L<gen9|gen9>

