=head1 NAME

gen1 - fill a function table with samples from a sound file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<makegen>(I<table_number>, 1, I<table_size>, I<file_name>, I<inskip>
[, I<inchannel> [, I<dump> ]])

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Call L<makegen|makegen> from a script with a I<function_type> of 1 to
fill a function table with samples from a sound file.

=head1 ARGUMENTS

=over 8

=item I<table_number>

The numeric ID for the function table.

Normally the table will be rescaled to fit between -1 and 1.
Put a negative sign before the number to prevent this.

=item I<table_size>

The duration (in seconds) of the sound file segment to read.  Note that
this departs from the normal meaning of I<table_size> for other gens.
If this duration is negative, then its absolute value is the number of
sample frames to read.  If I<table_size> is zero, the whole file is
slurpped in.  (Beware with large files: there is no check on memory
consumption!)

=item I<file_name>

The name of the sound file, in double quotes.  This can be a full or
relative path name.

=item I<inskip>

The time (in seconds) to skip before reading.  If this is negative,
its absolute value is the number of sample frames to skip before reading.

=item I<inchannel>

If this is missing, read all channels from the file; otherwise, read just
the channel specified here (with zero representing the first channel).

=item I<dump>

If 1, then dump the function table to a header-less sound file, called
"dumpaudio.raw," in the current directory.  The file contains 32-bit
floats, using the host byte order, I<inchannel> channels, and the
sampling rate in the source file's header.  (This is for debugging.)

=back

=head1 RETURN VALUE

Returns to the script the number of sample frames read and stored
into the function table.

=head1 EXAMPLES

   num_samps = makegen(-3, 1, 1.25, "mysound.aif", -1425, 0)

Table number 3 will contain 1.25 seconds worth of samples from the
sound file "mysound.aif," starting 1425 frames from the beginning
of the file, and using only channel 0.  After the call, I<num_samps>
will contain the number of sample frames in the function table.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<makegen|makegen>

