=head1 NAME

PAN - simple mixing instrument that follows a pan curve

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<PAN>(I<outskip>, I<inskip>, I<indur>, I<ampmult>
[, I<inchan> [, I<const_power>] ])

Function table 1 gives amplitude curve.

Function table 2 gives panning curve.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<PAN> lets you pan the input sound continuously, according to the
curve given in function table 2.  This curve should give I<time, pan>
pairs (similar to L<setline|setline>).  The I<pan> value is expressed
as the percentage of signal to place in the left channel (as in the
STEREO instrument), from 0 (0%) to 1 (100%).  Use L<gen24|gen24> to
make the function table, since it ensures the range of numbers is [0,1].

PAN uses "constant-power" panning to prevent a sense of lost power when
the sound source moves toward the center, unless you set p5 to zero.

B<PAN> uses the curve provided in function table 1 to scale the amplitudes
of the input source.  Use L<setline|setline>, L<setexp|setexp>, or
L<makegen|makegen> to create function table 1.  If this table has not
been created, no amplitude scaling (other than that given by I<ampmult>)
will occur.

The output of B<PAN> must be stereo.

=head1 PFIELDS

=over 8

=item B<p0> (I<outskip>) output start time

=item B<p1> (I<inskip>) input start time

=item B<p2> (I<indur>) input duration

=item B<p3> (I<ampmult>) amplitude multiplier

=item B<p4> (I<inchan>) input channel [optional, default is 0]

=item B<p5> (I<const_power>) 1: use constant-power panning; 0: use linear panning [optional, default is 1]

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

   setline(0,0, 1,0, 4,1, 5,0)
   makegen(2, 24, 1000, 0,1, 1,0, 3,.5)

   PAN(outskip=0, inskip=0, dur=3, amp=1, inchan=0)

This will pan input channel 0 from left to right over the first second.
Then the sound will travel back to the center during the next 2 seconds.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<setline|setline>, L<setexp|setexp>, L<makegen|makegen>, L<STEREO|STEREO>

=head1 AUTHOR

John Gibson E<lt>johgibso at indiana eduE<gt>

