=head1 NAME

pickwrand - return a weighted random choice from a set of numbers

=head1 SYNOPSIS

value = B<pickwrand>(I<number1>, I<probability1>
[, I<number2>, I<probability2>, ... I<numberN>, I<probabilityN> ])

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Call B<pickwrand> to choose randomly among several numbers that you
specify, with a probability for each number.

It's a good idea to call L<srand|srand> once to seed the random
number generator before using B<pickwrand>.  Otherwise, a seed of
1 will be used.

=head1 ARGUMENTS

=over 8

=item I<number>

=item I<probability>

There can be as many I<number>, I<probability> pairs as you like,
as long as there is at least one pair.

A I<probability> argument determines how likely it is that B<pickwrand>
will choose the corresponding I<number> argument.  The higher the
I<probability>, the more likely.

The total probability is the sum of all the I<probability> arguments.

=back

=head1 RETURNS

One of the I<number> arguments to B<pickwrand>, selected randomly
in accordance with the given probabilities.

=head1 EXAMPLES

   srand(0)
   while (outskip < ending_time) {
      stereo_loc = pickwrand(0.0, 10,  0.5, 80,  1.0, 10)
      WAVETABLE(outskip, dur, amp, frequency, stereo_loc)
      outskip = outskip + 0.2
   }

plays L<WAVETABLE|WAVETABLE> notes, panning them in accordance with
the following probabilities: 10% of the notes will pan to hard left,
10% of the notes will pan to hard right, and 80% of the notes will
pan to the center.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<srand|srand>, L<random|random>, L<rand|rand>, L<irand|irand>,
L<pickrand|pickrand>, L<spray_init|spray_init>, L<get_spray|get_spray>,
L<gen20|gen20>

=head1 AUTHOR

Douglas Scott E<lt>dscott at netscape netE<gt>

