=head1 NAME

REVERBIT - reverb instrument

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<REVERBIT>(I<outskip>, I<inskip>, I<indur>, I<ampmult>, I<revtime>,
I<wetpercent>, I<rtchandelay>, I<cutoff> [, I<dcblock> ])

Function table 1 gives amplitude curve.  This curve (and I<ampmult>)
affect the input signal, before it enters the reverberator.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<REVERBIT> reverberates the input signal using a variation on a
typical Schroeder network of comb and allpass filters.  (See below for
a description of the signal chain.)

This reverb works best with short reverb times and a moderate amount
of reverberated sound mixed into the output.  If you crank I<revtime>
and I<wetpercent>, you'll hear a grungy, grainy reverb tail.  You can
smooth this some using the lowpass filter.  Lansky's original intent
was just to "put a gloss on a signal," not to swamp it with gushy
reverb.

The I<rtchandelay> parameter governs the delay time between output
channels.  A small amount (e.g., .02 seconds) livens up the sound; a
larger amount makes an audible slap echo.

B<REVERBIT> uses the curve provided in function table 1 to scale the
amplitudes of the input source.  Use L<setline|setline>, L<setexp|setexp>,
or L<makegen|makegen> to create function table 1.  If this table has not
been created, no amplitude scaling (other than that given by I<ampmult>)
will occur.

The output of B<REVERBIT> must be stereo.  The input file can be
either mono or stereo.  If the input is from a real-time source,
such as live audio in or an aux bus, I<inskip> MUST be zero.

=head2 SIGNAL CHAIN

Here's how B<REVERBIT> works:

=over 4

=item 1.

Runs the input signal into a simple Schroeder reverberator, scaling
the output of that by the reverb percent and flipping its phase.  (The
reverberator has four comb filters in parallel, followed by two
allpass filters in series.)

=item 2.

Puts output of (1) into a delay line, length determined by
I<rtchandelay>.

=item 3.

Adds output of (1) to dry signal, and places in left channel.

=item 4.

Adds output of delay to dry signal, and places in right channel.

=item 5.

Feeds output to optional lowpass and DC-blocking filters.

=back

=head1 PFIELDS

=over 8

=item B<p0> (I<outskip>) output start time

=item B<p1> (I<inskip>) input start time

=item B<p2> (I<indur>) input duration

=item B<p3> (I<ampmult>) amplitude multiplier (applied to input)

=item B<p4> (I<revtime>) reverb time (in seconds, greater than 0)

=item B<p5> (I<wetpercent>) percent (from 0 to 1) of wet signal in output

=item B<p6> (I<rtchandelay>) right channel delay time (in seconds, greater than 0)

=item B<p7> (I<cutoff>) cutoff frequency (in Hz) of lowpass filter applied to output of reverberator (0 to disable filter)

=item B<p8> (I<dcblock>) apply DC blocking filter (0: No, 1: Yes) [optional; default is Yes.  Turn off for a bit more speed.]

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

Here's a good recipe for a moderate amount of reverb, suitable for
enhancing a signal without calling too much attention to the reverb.

   REVERBIT(outskip, inskip, indur, amp=1, revtime=.3,
            revpct=.25, rtchandelay=.015, cutoff=0)

To get a more dramatic reverb effect, it's probably a good idea to
roll off the high end graininess, using the built-in lowpass filter.

   REVERBIT(outskip, inskip, indur, amp, revtime=3,
            revpct=.9, rtchandelay=.06, cutoff=1200)

One common use for this instrument is as a sweetener for other
instruments.  To make this happen, you have to set up an aux bus to
send the signal from the first instrument into B<REVERBIT>.  It's
important to set B<REVERBIT>'s I<outskip> and I<indur> so that it
catches all the sound output by the first instrument.  The I<inskip>
to B<REVERBIT> must be zero when reading from anything other than a
soundfile.

   bus_config("WAVETABLE", "aux 0 out")
   bus_config("REVERBIT", "aux 0 in", "out 0-1")

   totdur = 10
   for (st = 0; st < totdur; st = st + .3)
      WAVETABLE(st, notedur=.1, amp=5000, freq=440)

   REVERBIT(outskip=0, inskip=0, totdur + notedur, amp=1,
            revtime=.6, revpct=.4, rtchandel=.02, cutoff=5000)

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<setline|setline>, L<setexp|setexp>, L<makegen|makegen>,
L<bus_config|bus_config>

=head1 AUTHOR

Paul Lansky, revised and documented for RTcmix by John Gibson
E<lt>johgibso at indiana eduE<gt>

