=head1 NAME

REVMIX - instrument that plays input file in reverse

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<REVMIX>(I<outskip>, I<inskip>, I<indur>, I<ampmult>
[, I<inchan>, I<stereoloc> ])

Function table 1 gives amplitude curve.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<REVMIX> plays the input file backward for the specified duration
(I<indur>), starting at the input start time (I<inskip>). If you
specify a duration that would result in an attempt to read before the
start of the input file, B<REVMIX> will shorten the note to prevent
this.

Note that you can't use this instrument with a real-time input
(microphone or aux bus), only with input from a sound file. (That's
because the input start time of an instrument taking real-time input
must be zero, but this instrument reads backward from its inskip.)

B<REVMIX> uses the curve provided in function table 1 to scale the
amplitudes of the input source.  Use L<setline|setline>, L<setexp|setexp>,
or L<makegen|makegen> to create function table 1.  If this table has not
been created, no amplitude scaling (other than that given by I<ampmult>)
will occur.

The output of B<REVMIX> can be either mono or stereo.

=head1 PFIELDS

=over 8

=item B<p0> (I<outskip>) output start time

=item B<p1> (I<inskip>) input start time

=item B<p2> (I<indur>) input duration

=item B<p3> (I<ampmult>) amplitude multiplier

=item B<p4> (I<inchan>) input channel [optional, default is 0]

=item B<p5> (I<stereoloc>) percent (from 0 to 1) of input signal to place in left output channel [optional, default is 0.5 if output is stereo]

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

   rtinput("a_stereo_sound")

   REVMIX(outskip=0, inskip=5, dur=3, amp=1, inchan=1, loc=.25)

This plays the right channel of the stereo input file in reverse,
starting at a point 5 seconds from the beginning of the file and
continuing for 3 seconds.  It pans the sound midway between center
and hard right.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<setline|setline>, L<setexp|setexp>, L<makegen|makegen>

=head1 AUTHOR

Ivica "Ico" Bukvic E<lt>ico at fuse netE<gt>

(with John Gibson E<lt>johgibso at indiana eduE<gt>)

