=head1 NAME

rtinput - open a sound file or audio device for reading

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<rtinput>(I<input_source> [, I<audio_type> ])

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Call B<rtinput> to open a sound file, or an audio device,
for subsequent reading by real-time instruments.

("Audio device" just refers to the hardware that handles sound I/O,
such as a sound card on a PC or the built-in hardware on a Mac.)

After B<rtinput> opens a sound file, it prints information about
the file, such as the header type and sampling rate.

The older disk-based Cmix instruments use L<input|input> to open
files for reading, not B<rtinput>.

=head1 ARGUMENTS

=over 8

=item I<input_source>

The name of a sound file, in double-quotes, having a header format
that RTcmix understands.  (These include, but are not limited to,
AIFF, AIFC, WAVE, NeXT, and IRCAM.)  Only files with data formats
of 32-bit floating point or 16-bit or 24-bit integer are readable.

If I<input_source> is "AUDIO," then input comes from the audio
device.  This lets you send input to RTcmix from a microphone
or line-level source.

=item I<audio_type>

A specific input source for the audio device, in double-quotes.
This is relevant only for SGI systems.  There are three audio
device input sources:

=for html <p>

=over 8

=item I<MIC> - microphone input

=item I<LINE> - line input

=item I<DIGITAL> - digital input

=back

I<MIC> is the default if no type is given.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

   rtinput("myfile.aif")

Opens "myfile.aif," an AIFF file in the current directory, for reading
by any instruments that follow this line in the script.

   rtinput("/home/bubba/snd/trouble.wav")

Opens "trouble.wav" using a full path name.

   rtinput("AUDIO")

Opens the audio device for reading.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<rtsetparams|rtsetparams>, L<rtoutput|rtoutput>, L<input|input>

