=head1 NAME

set_option - turn on and off various RTcmix options

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<set_option>(I<option_name> [, I<option_name>, ... ])

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Use B<set_option> to control the behavior of RTcmix: whether to
play audio, to report clipping and peak amplitude, to overwrite
existing sound files, and so on.

=head1 ARGUMENTS

=over 8

=item I<option_name>

An I<option_name> is a double-quoted string of the form "option_on"
or "option_off," depending on whether you want to turn the option
on or off.  The case used for the string is not significant.

A call to B<set_option> can contain more than one I<option_name>,
separated by commas.  There can be more than one call to B<set_option>
in a script.

=for html <p>

=over 8

=item I<audio_on, audio_off>

controls whether RTcmix plays audio while executing the script.

=item I<check_peaks_on, check_peaks_off>

controls whether RTcmix checks, reports, and stores peak amplitude
stats in sound files.

=item I<clobber_on, clobber_off>

controls whether RTcmix overwrites existing sound files without asking.
("Clobber_on" means that it will.)

=item I<full_duplex_on, full_duplex_off>

controls whether RTcmix opens the audio device for simultaneous
input and output.  You need this if you want to process a signal
coming from a microphone, for example.

=item I<report_clipping_on, report_clipping_off>

controls whether RTcmix reports samples that exceed the range provided
by signed 16-bit integers.

=back

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

   set_option("audio_off", "clobber_on")
   rtoutput("myfile.aif")

turns off audio playback and enables overwriting of existing files.
This is the standard way to make a script that writes a sound file.

   set_option("audio_off")
   set_option("clobber_on")
   rtoutput("myfile.aif")

this does exactly the same thing.

   set_option("full_duplex_on")
   rtsetparams(44100, 2, 128)
   rtinput("AUDIO")

sets up RTcmix to process audio received from the audio device
in real time.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<rtsetparams|rtsetparams>, L<rtinput|rtinput>, L<rtoutput|rtoutput>

