=head1 NAME

SHAPE - waveshaping instrument

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<SHAPE>(I<outskip>, I<inskip>, I<indur>, I<ampmult>, I<mindist>, I<maxdist>,
I<ampnorm_table> [, I<inchan>, I<stereoloc> ])

Function table 1 gives amplitude curve.

Function table 2 gives waveshaping transfer function.

Function table 3 gives distortion index curve.

Function table I<ampnorm_table> gives amplitude normalization function.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<SHAPE> applies a waveshaping transfer function to the input source.  (See
Dodge and Jerse, or any other computer music text, for a detailed explanation
of this process.)

B<SHAPE> uses the curve provided in function table 1 to scale the
amplitude of the output.  Use L<setline|setline>, L<setexp|setexp>,
or L<makegen|makegen> to create function table 1.  If this table has not
been created, no amplitude scaling will occur.

B<SHAPE> uses function table 2 as the waveshaping transfer function.  Use
L<gen 17|gen17> to get the Chebyshev polynomials that let you predict the
frequencies and amplitudes of harmonic partials.  Or use any other table type
for arbitrary distortion effects.

Function table 3 describes the path between I<mindist> and I<maxdist>.

If you want to perform amplitude normalization, set I<ampnorm_table> to the
number of the function table giving the normalization curve.  Otherwise, set
I<ampnorm_table> to zero.  The amplitude normalization function allows you to
decouple amplitude and timbral change, to some extent.  (Read about this in the
Roads "Computer Music Tutorial" chapter on waveshaping.) The table maps
incoming signal amplitudes, on the X axis, to amplitude multipliers, on the Y
axis.  The multipliers should be from 0 to 1.  The amplitude multipliers are
applied to the output signal, along with whatever overall amplitude curve is in
effect.  Generally, you'll want a curve that starts high and moves lower for
the higher signal amplitudes.  This will keep the bright and dark timbres more
equal in amplitude.  But anything is possible.

The output of B<SHAPE> can be either stereo or mono.

=head1 PFIELDS

=over 8

=item B<p0> (I<outskip>) output start time

=item B<p1> (I<inskip>) input  start time

=item B<p2> (I<indur>) input duration

=item B<p3> (I<ampmult>) amplitude multiplier

=item B<p4> (I<mindist>) minimum distortion index

=item B<p5> (I<maxdist>) maximum distortion index

=item B<p6> (I<ampnorm_table>) number of amplitude normalization table, or 0 for no normalization

=item B<p4> (I<inchan>) input channel [optional, default is 0]

=item B<p5> (I<stereoloc>) percent (from 0 to 1) of input signal to place in left output channel [optional, default is 0.5 if output is stereo]

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<setline|setline>, L<setexp|setexp>, L<makegen|makegen>, L<gen17|gen17>,
L<WAVESHAPE|WAVESHAPE>

=head1 AUTHOR

John Gibson E<lt>johgibso at indiana eduE<gt>

