=head1 NAME

STEREO - instrument that mixes to stereo, with static pan

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<STEREO>(I<outskip>, I<inskip>, I<dur>, I<ampmult>,
I<outloc0> [, I<outloc1>, ... I<outlocN> ])

Function table 1 gives amplitude curve.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<STEREO> mixes channels from the input source into the stereo output,
according to the I<outloc> arguments.  The I<outloc> arguments
together constitute a "mix matrix," in which argument position
represents input channel number, and argument value represents output
stereo location.  These values are expressed as the percentage of
signal to place in the left channel, from 0 (0%) to 1 (100%).  So, the
value of I<outloc0> says where to place input channel 0 in the output
stereo field; the value of I<outloc1> says where to place input
channel 1; and so on.  A value of -1 directs B<STEREO> to skip that
input channel.

B<STEREO> uses the curve provided in function table 1 to scale the
amplitudes of the input source.  Use L<setline|setline>, L<setexp|setexp>,
or L<makegen|makegen> to create function table 1.  If this table has not
been created, no amplitude scaling (other than that given by I<ampmult>)
will occur.

The output of B<STEREO> must be stereo.

=head1 PFIELDS

=over 8

=item B<p0> (I<outskip>) output start time

=item B<p1> (I<inskip>) input start time

=item B<p2> (I<dur>) duration (if negative: input end time)

=item B<p3> (I<ampmult>) amplitude multiplier

=item B<p4> (I<outloc0>) percent (from 0 to 1) of signal from input channel 0 to place in left output channel

=item B<p5> (I<outloc1>) percent of signal from input channel 1 to place in left output channel [optional]

=item B<p6+> (I<outlocN>) percent of signal from input channel N to place in left output channel [optional]

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following will mix 5 seconds of the mono input source to stereo
output, with the signal placed between hard left and center.  No
amplitude scaling will be done.

   rtinput("a_mono_file")

   loc = 0.75
   STEREO(outskip=0, inskip=1, dur=3, amp=1, loc)

The following will mix 2 seconds of the input source, starting from 1
second in, to stereo output.  The left and right channels of the input
will be swapped in the output, and amplitude will be scaled by the
setline curve.  The channel-swapping happens because the value of the
first I<outloc> slot, representing the left input channel, is set to
pan to hard right (0% to the left), and the value of the second
I<outloc> slot, representing the right input channel, is set to pan to
hard left (100% to the left).

   rtinput("a_stereo_file")

   setline(0,0, 1,0, 4,1, 5,0)

   STEREO(outskip=0, inskip=1, dur=3, amp=1, outloc0 = 0, outloc1 = 1)

The following will read from time 2.5 to time 5.8 from channel 1 (the
right channel) of a stereo input source.  It scales the input by 0.5
and places it in a random output stereo location.

   rtinput("a_stereo_file")

   inskip = 2.5
   intime_end = -5.8
   STEREO(outskip=0, inskip, intime_end, amp=0.5, -1, random())

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<setline|setline>, L<setexp|setexp>, L<makegen|makegen>

