=head1 NAME

TRANS3 - transposing instrument

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<TRANS3>(I<outskip>, I<inskip>, I<outdur>, I<ampmult>, I<transposition>
[, I<inchan>, I<stereoloc> ])

Function table 1 gives amplitude curve.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<TRANS3> transposes the input for the specified output duration
(I<outdur>), starting at the input start time (I<inskip>).

B<TRANS3> transposes by third-order polynomial interpolation.  It does not
maintain the input duration, so it's sort of like changing tape speed.
To transpose down, it interpolates samples between existing ones; to
transpose up, it discards some existing samples.  When transposing up,
then, it must consume more than I<outdur> seconds of samples, and this
means that it's possible to run off the end of the input file.

It also means that you can use this instrument only with input from a
sound file, not with a real-time input (microphone or aux bus) -- at
least not without hearing clicks.  (That's because you can't read
samples that haven't happened yet.)

B<TRANS3> uses the curve provided in function table 1 to scale the
amplitudes of the input source.  Use L<setline|setline>, L<setexp|setexp>,
or L<makegen|makegen> to create function table 1.  If this table has not
been created, no amplitude scaling (other than that given by I<ampmult>)
will occur.

The output of B<TRANS3> can be either mono or stereo.

=head1 PFIELDS

=over 8

=item B<p0> (I<outskip>) output start time

=item B<p1> (I<inskip>) input start time

=item B<p2> (I<outdur>) output duration (if negative, output end time)

=item B<p3> (I<ampmult>) amplitude multiplier

=item B<p4> (I<transposition>) interval of transposition, in octave.pc

=item B<p5> (I<inchan>) input channel [optional, default is 0]

=item B<p6> (I<stereoloc>) percent (from 0 to 1) of input signal to place in left output channel [optional, default is 0.5 if output is stereo]

=back

=head1 NOTES

To use B<TRANS3>, first call "load(TRANS)."  That's right: load TRANS, not
TRANS3.  TRANS is a family of instruments that includes TRANS3 as well as TRANS.

=head1 EXAMPLES

   rtinput("a_stereo_sound")

   trans = -0.02
   TRANS3(outskip=1, inskip=2, dur=4, amp=1, trans, inchan=0, loc=0)

This transposes the left channel of the stereo input file down by two
semitones, starting at a point 2 seconds from the beginning of the file
and continuing for 4 seconds.  It pans the sound hard right.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<TRANS|TRANS>, L<setline|setline>, L<setexp|setexp>, L<makegen|makegen>

=head1 AUTHOR

Douglas Scott E<lt>dscott at netscape netE<gt>

