=head1 NAME

WAVETABLE - wavetable synthesis instrument

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<WAVETABLE>(I<outskip>, I<dur>, I<amp>, I<freq>
[, I<stereoloc> ])

Function table 1 gives amplitude curve.

Function table 2 gives waveform.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<WAVETABLE> consults a wavetable -- a table that stores one cycle of
an arbitrary waveform -- to construct a signal at a specified frequency.
It scans the wavetable at a rate determined by the frequency and table
size.  (See Dodge and Jerse, or any other computer music text, for
detailed explanation of this process.)

B<WAVETABLE> uses the curve provided in function table 1 to scale the
amplitude of the output.  Use L<setline|setline>, L<setexp|setexp>,
or L<makegen|makegen> to create function table 1.  If this table has not
been created, no amplitude scaling will occur.

B<WAVETABLE> uses the waveform in function table 2.  Use L<gen 9|gen9>
or L<gen 10|gen10> to make this.

The output of B<WAVETABLE> can be either stereo or mono.

=head1 PFIELDS

=over 8

=item B<p0> (I<outskip>) output start time

=item B<p1> (I<dur>) duration

=item B<p2> (I<amp>) peak amplitude

=item B<p3> (I<freq>) frequency (or pitch in octave.pc if < 15)

=item B<p4> (I<stereoloc>) percent (from 0 to 1) of signal to place in left output channel [optional, default is 0 if output is stereo]

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following plays a sine wave for 4 seconds, at a frequency of
440 Hz and peak amplitude of 10000.

   makegen(2, 10, 1000, 1)    /* sine wave */
   WAVETABLE(outskip = 0, dur = 4, amp = 10000, freq = 440)

The following plays a sawtooth wave for 2 seconds, starting at
3 seconds after the beginning of the score.  The pitch is the
G above middle C, the peak amplitude is 4500, and the stereo
location is nearly hard right.

   makegen(2, 10, 1000, 1, 1/2, 1/3, 1/4, 1/5, 1/6, 1/7, 1/8, 1/9)
   WAVETABLE(outskip = 3, dur = 2, amp = 4500, pitch = 8.07, loc = 0.1)

Make the sound a little more interesting by using two B<WAVETABLE>
calls, each with slightly different pitch, to get a chorusing effect.

   dur = 10
   amp = 8000
   pitch = 8.00
   makegen(2, 10, 1000, 1, 1/2, 1/3, 1/4, 1/5, 1/6, 1/7, 1/8, 1/9)
   WAVETABLE(0, dur, amp, pitch, loc = 0.4)
   WAVETABLE(0, dur, amp, pitch + 0.0002, loc = 0.6)

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<setline|setline>, L<setexp|setexp>, L<makegen|makegen>,
L<gen9|gen9>, L<gen10|gen10>, L<WIGGLE|WIGGLE>

